"URNO     XXXXXXXXX 
Lab No    XXXXXXXXX        Specimen  TISSUE 


CLINICAL NOTES: 
?CMV vs GVHD 

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: 
1. ""TI biopsy"": Two 2mm tan tissue fragments. 2A1 all in. 

2. ""Right colon biopsy"": Two 2mm tan tissue fragments. 2A1 all in. 

3. ""Transverse ulcer biopsy"": A 3mm tan tissue fragment . 1A1 all in. 

4. ""Left colon biopsy"": Two 2mm tan tissue fragments. 2A1 all in. 

CMV immunohistochemistry ordered at cut-up. 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: 
1. The biopsy of small bowel mucosa with muscularis mucosae shows markedly flattened villi lined by reactive epithelium. The crypts show some basal branching along with numerous apoptoses, along with some crypt dropout. There is some erosion with 
granulation tissue and a light mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate. Granulomas, viral cytopathic effect and parasites are not seen. There is no dysplasia. 

2. The biopsy of large bowel mucosa with muscularis mucosae shows slightly irregular crypts with a rare branched crypt and reactive epithelium. The lamina propria is oedematous without an abnormal complement of inflammatory cells. Scattered crypt base 
apoptosis is present. Granulomas and viral cytopathic effect are not seen. There is no acute inflammation or dysplasia. 

3 & 4. The biopsies of large bowel mucosa with muscularis mucosae show irregular branched crypts lined by reactive epithelium with numerous crypt base apoptoses. There is seen crypt dropout and granulation tissue with the lamina propria show slightly 
increased numbers of chronic inflammatory cells. Granulomas, viral cytopathic effect and parasites are not seen. There is no dysplasia. 

CMV immunohistochemistry is negative on all specimens. 

DIAGNOSIS: 
1. Terminal ileum biopsy: Features in keeping with moderate active chronic graft-versus-host disease. 

2. Right colon biopsy: Features in keeping with mild active chronic graft-versus-host disease. 

3 & 4. Transverse and left colon biopsies: Features in keeping with moderate active chronic graft-versus-host disease. "
